Add what a year blogpost (#614)
updatecli/website: content/en/blog/2022/12/what_a_year.adoc

- A project Logo!
- First (unexpected) blog posts 

image::/images/blog/2022/12/promaton.png["Promaton"]

Several major ideas also came to life:

**Manifest validation**

For decades, software projects maintained scripts written in many different languages to automate their project updates. All Updatecli's contributors maintained scripts like those. They also saw them being copy-pasted across repositories up to a point where most of the logic was just technical debt that nobody knew about anymore.

With Updatecli, the initial goal was to get a declarative way of describing those updates to reduce the complexity of maintaining these scripts by creating a specific link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language[DSL].
Unfortunately, with each new DSL comes some learning curve.
Using this Updatecli new DSL was error-prone and maintaining the documentation was time-consuming.

The project started generating and publishing a link:https://json-schema.org/[JSON Schema] on the link:https://www.schemastore.org/json/[JSON Schema Store] so everybody could benefit from validation and documentation right from their IDE without any additional configuration.

> All they had to do was to have their Updatecli manifest files live within `updatecli.d` directory. The Jsonschema also benefits the documentation website which means fewer things to maintain!

Author: ```suggestion
Only requirement for IDE integration, is to have Updatecli manifest  located in the `updatecli.d` directory. The Jsonschema also benefits the documentation website which means fewer things to maintain!
```

Author: @lemeurherve Is it better for you?

Reviewer: Looks better indeed!

Additional suggestion:
```suggestion
The only requirement for the IDE integration is to have Updatecli manifest(s) located in the `updatecli.d` directory. The JSON Schema also benefits to the documentation website which means fewer things to maintain!
```

---
title: "2022 is over and what a year!"
date: 2022-12-19T16:13:42+01:00
draft: false
weight: 50
images: [""]
contributors: ["olblak"]
---
:hide-uri-scheme:

== 2022 is over and what a year!

2022 has been awesome for the Updatecli project.

> Updatecli went from a tool mainly used within the Jenkins project, to a project that others organizations could rely on to keep their git repositories up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updatecli went from a tool mainly used within the Jenkins project to a project that others organizations could rely on to keep their git repositories up to date.
```

> Firstly, with link:https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=30286047[HackerNews], then with link:https://youtu.be/157bsLD-0mM[CDcon], the project received many feedback and evolved. 2022, was rich in opportunities to understand how project maintainers benefited from Updatecli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, with link:https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=30286047[HackerNews], then with link:https://youtu.be/157bsLD-0mM[CDcon], the project received many feedback and evolved a lot. 2022 was rich in opportunities to understand how project maintainers benefit from Updatecli.
```

> With the user base growing, came many feature requests and new update scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the user base growing came many feature requests and new update scenarios.
```

> Over the year, the Updatecli was:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updatecli over this year:
```

- 45 releases
- 15 new contributors

> - Many plugins addition, or improvement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Many plugins additions and improvements
```

- A project Logo!

> - First (not expected) blog posts 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First (unexpected) blog posts 
```

image::/images/blog/2022/12/promaton.png["Promaton"]

> Several major ideas came to life

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several major ideas also came to life:
```

**Manifest validation**

> For decades, software projects maintained scripts written in many different languages to automate their project updates. All Updatecli's contributors maintained scripts like those. They also saw them being copy-paste across repositories up to a point where most of the logic was just technical debts that nobody knew about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For decades, software projects maintained scripts written in many different languages to automate their project updates. All Updatecli's contributors maintained scripts like those. They also saw them being copy-pasted across repositories up to a point where most of the logic was just technical debts that nobody knew about anymore.
```

> With Updatecli, the goal was to have a declarative way of describing those Updates, to reduce the complexity of maintaining those scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Updatecli, the initial goal was to get a declarative way of describing those updates to reduce the complexity of maintaining these scripts by creating a specific link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language[DSL].
```

> Unfortunately, with each new DSL comes to some learning curve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, with each new DSL comes some learning curve.
```

> Using the Updatecli new DSL was error-prone, and maintaining the documentation, was time-consuming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this Updatecli new DSL was error-prone and maintaining the documentation was time-consuming.
```

> The project started generating and publishing "Jsonschema" on the "Jonschemastore" so everybody could benefit from validation and documentation, right from their IDE without any additional configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project started generating and publishing a link:https://json-schema.org/[JSON Schema] on the link:https://www.schemastore.org/json/[JSON Schema Store] so everybody could benefit from validation and documentation right from their IDE without any additional configuration.
```

> All they had to do was to have their Updatecli manifest files live within `updatecli.d` directory. The Jsonschema also benefits the documentation website which means fewer things to maintain...

Reviewer: > All they had to do was to have their Updatecli manifest files live within `updatecli.d` directory.

I don't understand the meaning and goal of this sentence, I would reword or omit it.

> All they had to do was to have their Updatecli manifest files live within `updatecli.d` directory. The Jsonschema also benefits the documentation website which means fewer things to maintain...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All they had to do was to have their Updatecli manifest files live within `updatecli.d` directory. The Jsonschema also benefits the documentation website which means fewer things to maintain!
```

image::/images/blog/2022/12/pr1000.png["PR1000"]

**GitHub action**

> Updatecli works great from a local machine, but it works even better when executed from CI environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updatecli works great from a local machine, but it works even better when executed from a CI environment.
```

> CI tooling offers many different kinds of trigger mechanisms that benefit Updatecli.
> Here some example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CI tooling offers many kinds of trigger mechanisms that benefit Updatecli.

Here are some examples:
```

> * GitOps - triggered by a scheduler, Updatecli keeps GitOps repository up to date
> * Release - triggered by a release event, Updatecli can propagate a new release version quickly to downstream git repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* GitOps - triggered by a scheduler: Updatecli keeps GitOps repository up to date.
* Release - triggered by a release event: Updatecli can quickly propagate a new release version to downstream git repositories.
```

Reviewer: > triggered by a scheduler:

To be explained? Or replaced by "a commit"?

Author: I meant the cron scheduler and I thought that a scheduler is more generic

> Thanks, Joseph Petersen, who made the Updatecli GitHub Action, what it's today.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many thanks to link:https://github.com/jetersen[Joseph Petersen] who made link:https://github.com/updatecli/updatecli-action[the Updatecli GitHub Action] what it is today.
```

image::/images/blog/2022/12/twitter.png["twitter"]

**Autodiscovery**

> Updatecli started as a way to describe advanced Update scenarios using manifests. Of course for standard Update scenarios, manifests can be redundant, and sometimes a project needs a mix of both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updatecli started as a way to describe advanced update scenarios using manifests. Of course for standard update scenarios, manifests can be redundant and sometimes a project needs a mix of both.
```
"both": both what?

Also, I like the old plural form of scenario but it's a matter of personal taste:
```suggestion
Updatecli started as a way to describe advanced update scenarii using manifests. Of course for standard update scenarios, manifests can be redundant and sometimes a project needs a mix of both.
```

That's what Updatecli "Autodiscovery" is about.

> The purpose is to let Updatecli analyze files from a directory and then generate standard Update manifests before applying them. Autodiscovery is complementary to the manifest approach and is still an experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose is to let Updatecli analyzes files from a directory and then generate standard update manifests before applying them. Autodiscovery is complementary to the manifest approach and is still experimental.
```

Over the year, Updatecli started supporting automatic update for Dockerfile, Docker Compose file, Helm, Helmfile, Rancher Fleet, and Maven.

> Users can run one of the following commands from whatever directory to see what would change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can run one of the following commands from the directory of their choice to see what manifest(s) would be generated:
```

* `updatecli diff --experimental`
* `updatecli manifest show --experimental`
* `updatecli apply --experimental`

**Updatemonitor**

> The Updatemonitor app was another well received-experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Updatemonitor app is another well received experiment.
```

While still in an early stage, the Updatemonitor app is a long-running service that leverages Updatecli plugins to monitor all kinds of information.

image::/images/blog/2022/12/updatemonitor.png["Updatemonitor"]

== Thank you all

This year wouldn't have been possible without the many people who contributed to Updatecli.

> Thanks to Damien Duportal and Hervé Le Meur, for those endless discussions.
> Thanks, Joseph Petersen for being an early adopter and contributor of Updatecli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to link:https://github.com/dduportal[Damien Duportal] and link:https://github.com/lemeurherve[Hervé Le Meur] for those endless discussions.
Thanks lin:https://github.com/jetersen[Joseph Petersen] for being an early adopter and contributor of Updatecli.
```

Thanks to everybody who has been part of the journey.

> 2022 is over, See you in 2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2022 is over, see you in 2023!
```

---
title: "2022 is over and what a year!"
date: 2022-12-19T16:13:42+01:00
draft: false
weight: 50
images: [""]
contributors: ["olblak"]
---
:hide-uri-scheme:

== 2022 is over and what a year!

2022 has been awesome for the Updatecli project.
Updatecli went from a tool mainly used within the Jenkins project to a project that others organizations could rely on to keep their git repositories up to date.

Firstly, with link:https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=30286047[HackerNews], then with link:https://youtu.be/157bsLD-0mM[CDcon], the project received many feedback and evolved a lot. 2022 was rich in opportunities to understand how project maintainers benefit from Updatecli.

With the user base growing came many feature requests and new update scenarios.

Updatecli over this year:

- 45 releases
- 15 new contributors
- Many plugins additions and improvements
- A project Logo!
- First (not expected) blog posts 

image::/images/blog/2022/12/promaton.png["Promaton"]

Several major ideas also came to life:

**Manifest validation**

> For decades, software projects maintained scripts written in many different languages to automate their project updates. All Updatecli's contributors maintained scripts like those. They also saw them being copy-pasted across repositories up to a point where most of the logic was just technical debts that nobody knew about anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For decades, software projects maintained scripts written in many different languages to automate their project updates. All Updatecli's contributors maintained scripts like those. They also saw them being copy-pasted across repositories up to a point where most of the logic was just technical debt that nobody knew about anymore.
```

All they had to do was to have their Updatecli manifest files live within `updatecli.d` directory. The Jsonschema also benefits the documentation website which means fewer things to maintain!

image::/images/blog/2022/12/pr1000.png["PR1000"]

**GitHub action**

Updatecli works great from a local machine, but it works even better when executed from a CI environment.

CI tooling offers many kinds of trigger mechanisms that benefit Updatecli.

Here are some examples:

* GitOps - triggered by a scheduler: Updatecli keeps GitOps repository up to date.
* Release - triggered by a release event: Updatecli can quickly propagate a new release version to downstream git repositories.

Many thanks to link:https://github.com/jetersen[Joseph Petersen] who made link:https://github.com/updatecli/updatecli-action[the Updatecli GitHub Action] what it is today.

image::/images/blog/2022/12/twitter.png["twitter"]

**Autodiscovery**

> Updatecli started as a way to describe advanced update scenarios using manifests. Of course for standard update scenarios, manifests can be redundant and sometimes a project needs a mix of both.

Author: ```suggestion
Updatecli started as a way to describe advanced update scenarii using manifests. Of course for standard update scenario, a manifest can be redundant and sometimes a project needs a mix of both.
```

That's what Updatecli "Autodiscovery" is about.
The purpose is to let Updatecli analyzes files from a directory and then generate standard update manifests before applying them. Autodiscovery is complementary to the manifest approach and is still experimental.

Over the year, Updatecli started supporting automatic update for Dockerfile, Docker Compose file, Helm, Helmfile, Rancher Fleet, and Maven.

Users can run one of the following commands from the directory of their choice to see what manifest(s) would be generated:

* `updatecli diff --experimental`
* `updatecli manifest show --experimental`
* `updatecli apply --experimental`

**Updatemonitor**

The Updatemonitor app is another well received experiment.
While still in an early stage, the Updatemonitor app is a long-running service that leverages Updatecli plugins to monitor all kinds of information.

image::/images/blog/2022/12/updatemonitor.png["Updatemonitor"]

> 
> 
> == Thank you all
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Thank you all
```

This year wouldn't have been possible without the many people who contributed to Updatecli.
Thanks to link:https://github.com/dduportal[Damien Duportal] and link:https://github.com/lemeurherve[Hervé Le Meur] for those endless discussions.

> Thanks lin:https://github.com/jetersen[Joseph Petersen] for being an early adopter and contributor of Updatecli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to link:https://github.com/jetersen[Joseph Petersen] for being an early adopter and contributor of Updatecli.
```

Thanks to everybody who has been part of the journey.

2022 is over, see you in 2023!

> Cheers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cheers,
Olivier
```
or
```suggestion
Cheers,
link:https://github.com/Olblak[Olblak]
```

Reviewer: I don't know if there is any better specific asciidoc syntax for contributor, in which case it should be used here and above if possible.
